README.md, before:

# LibNRL

This  repository provide a NRL(network representation learning) framework. It contains implementation of "node2vec", "LINE", "GraRep" and "GCN".

The NRL algorithm learns continuous representations for nodes in any (un)directed, (un)weighted graph.

## Requirements

-  numpy
-  networkx
-  scipy (if you want to use cython to spead up node2vec, please set scipy==0.15.1)
-  tensorflow
-  gensim
-  sklearn

## Usage

#### Example

To run "node2vec" on BlogCatalog network and evaluate the feature representations on multi-label classification for nodes, execute the following command from the project home directory:

    python src/main.py --method node2vec --label-file data/blogCatalog/bc_labels.txt --input data/blogCatalog/bc_adjlist.txt --graph-format adjlist --output vec_all.txt --q 0.25 --p 0.25

To run "gcn" on Cora network and evaluate the feature representations on classification for nodes, execute the following command from the project home directory:

    python src/main.py --method gcn --label-file data/cora/cora_labels.txt --input data/cora/cora_edgelist.txt --graph-format edgelist --nodestatus-file data/cora/cora_status.txt --feature-file data/cora/cora_features.pkl --epochs 200 --output vec_all.txt

#### Options
You can check out the other options available to use with *LibNRL* using:

    python src/main.py --help

General Options:

- --input, the input file of a network;
- --output, the output file of representation;
- --directed, treat graph as directed; this is an action;
- --representation-size, the number od latent dimensions to learn for each node; the default is 128;
- --method, the learning method including node2vec and line;
- --label-file, the file of node label;
- --graph-format, the format of input graph including adjlist and edgelist;
- --weighted, treat the graph as weighted; this is an action;
- --clf-ratio, the ratio of training data in the classification; the default is 0.5;

Node2vec Options:

- --number-walks, the number of random walks to start at each node; the default is 10;
- --walk-length, the length of random walk started at each node; the default is 80;
- --workers, the number od parallel processes to train Word2vec; the default is 8;
- --window-size, the window size of skipgram model; the default is 10;
- --q, the default is 1.0;
- --p, the default is 1.0;

LINE Options:

- --epochs, the training epochs of LINE; the default is 5;
- --negative-ratio, the default is 5;
- --order, the default is 3 which means 1st + 2nd and 1 means 1st, 2 means 2nd.
- --no-auto-stop, no early stop when training LINE; this is an action; When training LINE, we will calculate micro-F1 every epoch; If current micro-F1 is smaller than last micro-F1, the training process will stop early.

GCN Options:

- --feature-file, The file of node features;
- --nodestatus-file, The file of node status;
- --epochs, the training epochs of GCN; the default is 5;
- --dropout, Dropout rate (1 - keep probability);
- --weight-decay, Weight for L2 loss on embedding matrix;
- --hidden, Number of units in hidden layer 1.

GraRep Options:

- --kstep, Use k-step transition probability matrix（make sure representation-size%k-step == 0).

#### Input
The supported input format is an edgelist or an adjlist:

    edgelist: node1 node2 <weight_float, optional>
    adjlist: node n1 n2 n3 ... nk
The graph is assumed to be undirected and unweighted by default. These options can be changed by setting the appropriate flags.

#### Output
The output file has *n+1* lines for a graph with *n* vertices. 
The first line has the following format:

    num_of_nodes dim_of_representation

The next *n* lines are as follows:
    
    node_id dim1 dim2 ... dimd

where dim1, ... , dimd is the *d*-dimensional representation learned by *libnrl*.

#### Evaluate

If you want to evaluate the feature representations, you can have the labels of node as input. It will use 50%(default) nodes to train a classifier and calculate F1-score on the rest dataset.

The supported input label format is

    node label1 label2 label3...

## Compare with other packages

We list the classification result of various methods in different datasets. We set the dimension of vectors = 128, **p=1, q=1** in node2vec and **kstep=4** in GraRep . DeepWalk can walk faster than node2vec because it only accepts binary edges. As a result, the time of DeepWalk is shorter than node2vec's.

GCN is an approach for semi-supervised learning on graph-structured data. GCN performs batch gradient descent using the full dataset for every training iteration, so it can't work with GPU on a large dataset. And GCN is suitable for the dataset whose nodes have features.

CPU: Intel(R) Xeon(R) CPU E5-2620 v3 @ 2.40GHz

[BlogCatalog](https://github.com/phanein/deepwalk/tree/master/example_graphs): 10312 nodes 333983 edges 39 labels undirected:

- data/blogCatalog/bc_adjlist.txt
- data/blogCatalog/bc_edgelist.txt
- data/blogCatalog/bc_labels.txt

|Algorithm | Time| Micro-F1 | Macro-F1|
|:------------|-------------:|------------:|-------:|
|LibNRL(node2vec) | 1522s  | 0.403 | 0.268|
|LibNRL(LINE 1st+2nd) | 943s | 0.368 | 0.192|
|LibNRL(GraRep) | 4178s | 0.393 | 0.230 |
|[Node2vec](https://github.com/aditya-grover/node2vec) | 1687s  | 0.390| 0.230|
|[LINE 1st+2nd](https://github.com/tangjianpku/LINE) | 2008s | 0.398 | 0.235|
|[DeepWalk](https://github.com/phanein/deepwalk) | 271s | 0.385 | 0.238|

[Wiki](https://github.com/thunlp/MMDW/tree/master/data): 2405 nodes 17981 edges 19 labels directed:

- data/wiki/Wiki_edgelist.txt
- data/wiki/Wiki_category.txt

|Algorithm | Time| Micro-F1 | Macro-F1|
|:------------|-------------:|------------:|-------:|
|LibNRL(Node2vec) | 49s  | 0.633 | 0.543|
|LibNRL(LINE 2nd) | 111s | 0.641 | 0.461|
|LibNRL(GraRep) | 75s | 0.654 | 0.509 |
|[node2vec](https://github.com/aditya-grover/node2vec) | 51s  | 0.623 | 0.537|
|[LINE 2nd](https://github.com/tangjianpku/LINE) | 103s | 0.584 | 0.396|
|[DeepWalk](https://github.com/phanein/deepwalk) | 50s | 0.667 | 0.566|

[cora](https://github.com/tkipf/gcn/tree/master/gcn/data): 2708 nodes 5429 edges 7 labels directed:

- data/cora/cora_edgelist.txt
- data/cora/cora_feature.pkl (save the features of nodes)
- data/cora/cora_labels.txt
- data/cora/cora_status.txt (split nodes to traing set, validation set and test set)

|Algorithm | Dropout | Weight_decay | Hidden | Time| Accuracy |
|:------------|-------------:|-------:|-------:|-------:|-------:|
|GCN | 0.5 | 5e-4 | 16 | 8s  | 0.824 |
|GCN | 0 | 5e-4 | 16 | 9s  | 0.800 |
|GCN | 0.5 | 1e-4 | 16 | 11s  | 0.809 |
|GCN | 0.5 | 5e-4 | 64 | 9s  | 0.816 |

## Citing

If you find *LibNRL* is useful for your research, please consider citing the following papers:

    @InProceedings{perozzi2014deepwalk,
      Title                    = {Deepwalk: Online learning of social representations},
      Author                   = {Perozzi, Bryan and Al-Rfou, Rami and Skiena, Steven},
      Booktitle                = {Proceedings of KDD},
      Year                     = {2014},
      Pages                    = {701--710}
    }

    @InProceedings{tang2015line,
      Title                    = {Line: Large-scale information network embedding},
      Author                   = {Tang, Jian and Qu, Meng and Wang, Mingzhe and Zhang, Ming and Yan, Jun and Mei, Qiaozhu},
      Booktitle                = {Proceedings of WWW},
      Year                     = {2015},
      Pages                    = {1067--1077}
    }

    @InProceedings{grover2016node2vec,
      Title                    = {node2vec: Scalable feature learning for networks},
      Author                   = {Grover, Aditya and Leskovec, Jure},
      Booktitle                = {Proceedings of KDD},
      Year                     = {2016},
      Pages                    = {855--864}
    }

    @article{kipf2016semi,
      Title                    = {Semi-Supervised Classification with Graph Convolutional Networks},
      Author                   = {Kipf, Thomas N and Welling, Max},
      journal                  = {arXiv preprint arXiv:1609.02907},
      Year                     = {2016}
    }

    @InProceedings{cao2015grarep,
      Title                    = {Grarep: Learning graph representations with global structural information},
      Author                   = {Cao, Shaosheng and Lu, Wei and Xu, Qiongkai},
      Booktitle                = {Proceedings of CIKM},
      Year                     = {2015},
      Pages                    = {891--900}
    }

## Sponsor

This research has been supported in part by NSFC and Tencent.

<img src="http://logonoid.com/images/tencent-logo.png" width = "300" height = "30" alt="tencent" align=center />

<img src="http://www.dragon-star.eu/wp-content/uploads/2014/04/NSFC_logo.jpg" width = "100" height = "80" alt="NSFC" align=center />

Commit message:

Split dataset according to clf-ratio for GCN.

README.md, after:

# LibNRL

This  repository provide a NRL(network representation learning) framework. It contains implementation of "node2vec", "LINE", "GraRep" and "GCN".

The NRL algorithm learns continuous representations for nodes in any (un)directed, (un)weighted graph.

## Requirements

-  numpy
-  networkx
-  scipy (if you want to use cython to spead up node2vec, please set scipy==0.15.1)
-  tensorflow
-  gensim
-  sklearn

## Usage

#### Example

To run "node2vec" on BlogCatalog network and evaluate the feature representations on multi-label classification for nodes, execute the following command from the project home directory:

    python src/main.py --method node2vec --label-file data/blogCatalog/bc_labels.txt --input data/blogCatalog/bc_adjlist.txt --graph-format adjlist --output vec_all.txt --q 0.25 --p 0.25

To run "gcn" on Cora network and evaluate the feature representations on classification for nodes, execute the following command from the project home directory:

    python src/main.py --method gcn --label-file data/cora/cora_labels.txt --input data/cora/cora_edgelist.txt --graph-format edgelist --feature-file data/cora/cora.features  --epochs 200 --output vec_all.txt --clf-ratio 0.1

#### Options
You can check out the other options available to use with *LibNRL* using:

    python src/main.py --help

General Options:

- --input, the input file of a network;
- --output, the output file of representation;
- --directed, treat graph as directed; this is an action;
- --representation-size, the number od latent dimensions to learn for each node; the default is 128;
- --method, the learning method including node2vec and line;
- --label-file, the file of node label;
- --graph-format, the format of input graph including adjlist and edgelist;
- --weighted, treat the graph as weighted; this is an action;
- --clf-ratio, the ratio of training data in the classification; the default is 0.5;

Node2vec Options:

- --number-walks, the number of random walks to start at each node; the default is 10;
- --walk-length, the length of random walk started at each node; the default is 80;
- --workers, the number od parallel processes to train Word2vec; the default is 8;
- --window-size, the window size of skipgram model; the default is 10;
- --q, the default is 1.0;
- --p, the default is 1.0;

LINE Options:

- --epochs, the training epochs of LINE; the default is 5;
- --negative-ratio, the default is 5;
- --order, the default is 3 which means 1st + 2nd and 1 means 1st, 2 means 2nd.
- --no-auto-stop, no early stop when training LINE; this is an action; When training LINE, we will calculate micro-F1 every epoch; If current micro-F1 is smaller than last micro-F1, the training process will stop early.

GCN Options:

- --feature-file, The file of node features;
- --epochs, the training epochs of GCN; the default is 5;
- --dropout, Dropout rate (1 - keep probability);
- --weight-decay, Weight for L2 loss on embedding matrix;
- --hidden, Number of units in hidden layer 1.

GraRep Options:

- --kstep, Use k-step transition probability matrix（make sure representation-size%k-step == 0).

#### Input
The supported input format is an edgelist or an adjlist:

    edgelist: node1 node2 <weight_float, optional>
    adjlist: node n1 n2 n3 ... nk
The graph is assumed to be undirected and unweighted by default. These options can be changed by setting the appropriate flags.

#### Output
The output file has *n+1* lines for a graph with *n* vertices. 
The first line has the following format:

    num_of_nodes dim_of_representation

The next *n* lines are as follows:
    
    node_id dim1 dim2 ... dimd

where dim1, ... , dimd is the *d*-dimensional representation learned by *libnrl*.

#### Evaluate

If you want to evaluate the feature representations, you can have the labels of node as input. It will use 50%(default) nodes to train a classifier and calculate F1-score on the rest dataset.

The supported input label format is

    node label1 label2 label3...

## Compare with other packages

We list the classification result of various methods in different datasets. We set the dimension of vectors = 128, **p=1, q=1** in node2vec and **kstep=4** in GraRep . DeepWalk can walk faster than node2vec because it only accepts binary edges. As a result, the time of DeepWalk is shorter than node2vec's.

GCN is an approach for semi-supervised learning on graph-structured data. GCN performs batch gradient descent using the full dataset for every training iteration, so it can't work with GPU on a large dataset. And GCN is suitable for the dataset whose nodes have features. In Cora, we use 10% data to train our model.

CPU: Intel(R) Xeon(R) CPU E5-2620 v3 @ 2.40GHz

[BlogCatalog](https://github.com/phanein/deepwalk/tree/master/example_graphs): 10312 nodes 333983 edges 39 labels undirected:

- data/blogCatalog/bc_adjlist.txt
- data/blogCatalog/bc_edgelist.txt
- data/blogCatalog/bc_labels.txt

|Algorithm | Time| Micro-F1 | Macro-F1|
|:------------|-------------:|------------:|-------:|
|LibNRL(node2vec) | 1522s  | 0.403 | 0.268|
|LibNRL(LINE 1st+2nd) | 943s | 0.368 | 0.192|
|LibNRL(GraRep) | 4178s | 0.393 | 0.230 |
|[Node2vec](https://github.com/aditya-grover/node2vec) | 1687s  | 0.390| 0.230|
|[LINE 1st+2nd](https://github.com/tangjianpku/LINE) | 2008s | 0.398 | 0.235|
|[DeepWalk](https://github.com/phanein/deepwalk) | 271s | 0.385 | 0.238|

[Wiki](https://github.com/thunlp/MMDW/tree/master/data): 2405 nodes 17981 edges 19 labels directed:

- data/wiki/Wiki_edgelist.txt
- data/wiki/Wiki_category.txt

|Algorithm | Time| Micro-F1 | Macro-F1|
|:------------|-------------:|------------:|-------:|
|LibNRL(Node2vec) | 49s  | 0.633 | 0.543|
|LibNRL(LINE 2nd) | 111s | 0.641 | 0.461|
|LibNRL(GraRep) | 75s | 0.654 | 0.509 |
|[node2vec](https://github.com/aditya-grover/node2vec) | 51s  | 0.623 | 0.537|
|[LINE 2nd](https://github.com/tangjianpku/LINE) | 103s | 0.584 | 0.396|
|[DeepWalk](https://github.com/phanein/deepwalk) | 50s | 0.667 | 0.566|

[cora](https://github.com/tkipf/gcn/tree/master/gcn/data): 2708 nodes 5429 edges 7 labels directed:

- data/cora/cora_edgelist.txt
- data/cora/cora_feature.pkl (save the features of nodes)
- data/cora/cora_labels.txt
- data/cora/cora_status.txt (split nodes to traing set, validation set and test set)

|Algorithm | Dropout | Weight_decay | Hidden | Time| Accuracy |
|:------------|-------------:|-------:|-------:|-------:|-------:|
|GCN | 0.5 | 5e-4 | 16 | 5.7s  | 0.780 |
|GCN | 0 | 5e-4 | 16 | 6.5s  | 0.890 |
|GCN | 0.5 | 1e-4 | 16 | 5.5s  | 0.782 |
|GCN | 0.5 | 5e-4 | 64 | 6.0s  | 0.785 |

## Citing

If you find *LibNRL* is useful for your research, please consider citing the following papers:

    @InProceedings{perozzi2014deepwalk,
      Title                    = {Deepwalk: Online learning of social representations},
      Author                   = {Perozzi, Bryan and Al-Rfou, Rami and Skiena, Steven},
      Booktitle                = {Proceedings of KDD},
      Year                     = {2014},
      Pages                    = {701--710}
    }

    @InProceedings{tang2015line,
      Title                    = {Line: Large-scale information network embedding},
      Author                   = {Tang, Jian and Qu, Meng and Wang, Mingzhe and Zhang, Ming and Yan, Jun and Mei, Qiaozhu},
      Booktitle                = {Proceedings of WWW},
      Year                     = {2015},
      Pages                    = {1067--1077}
    }

    @InProceedings{grover2016node2vec,
      Title                    = {node2vec: Scalable feature learning for networks},
      Author                   = {Grover, Aditya and Leskovec, Jure},
      Booktitle                = {Proceedings of KDD},
      Year                     = {2016},
      Pages                    = {855--864}
    }

    @article{kipf2016semi,
      Title                    = {Semi-Supervised Classification with Graph Convolutional Networks},
      Author                   = {Kipf, Thomas N and Welling, Max},
      journal                  = {arXiv preprint arXiv:1609.02907},
      Year                     = {2016}
    }

    @InProceedings{cao2015grarep,
      Title                    = {Grarep: Learning graph representations with global structural information},
      Author                   = {Cao, Shaosheng and Lu, Wei and Xu, Qiongkai},
      Booktitle                = {Proceedings of CIKM},
      Year                     = {2015},
      Pages                    = {891--900}
    }

## Sponsor

This research has been supported in part by NSFC and Tencent.

<img src="http://logonoid.com/images/tencent-logo.png" width = "300" height = "30" alt="tencent" align=center />

<img src="http://www.dragon-star.eu/wp-content/uploads/2014/04/NSFC_logo.jpg" width = "100" height = "80" alt="NSFC" align=center />
